---
layout: post
title: "Post one"
date: 2017-10-14
---
<h3 style="text-align:center;"> Proposal for the FP-growth algorithm on Spark</h3>

Name: HU Zuying, ZHANG Haoze

<h4>1. Problem Description</h4>

<p style="text-align:justify;">Given a dataset, finding frequent patterns and further finding associations rules, one of the main tasks in data mining, are always computationally expenive, especially when the size of dataset is large. Frequent patterns and assioactions rules could widely used in many commercial cases, for example, in a dataset recording the transactions of a game store, it is discovered that if customers buy Super Mario, they always buy Legend of Zelda together, then we know we shall prepare enough copies of both for customers.  Therefore, an efficient and scalable method for finding frequent patterns is in great need.</p>

<h4>2.FP-Growth Algorithm</h4>

<p style="text-align:justify;">Han proposed a method, called FP-Growth Algorithm to address the computational challenge in frequent pattern mining [1].</p>

<p style="text-align:justify;">First of all, a threshold is set to determine whether a pattern is frequent and to discard the patterns below it.</p>

<p style="text-align:justify;">In the FP-Growth algorithm, we shall count the number of occurrences of each item by scaning the dataset and sort items in the transactions in a desceding order and discard infrequent items based on the frequency. Then we canconstruct a FP-tree by inserting transactions. Based on the FP-tree,  conditional FP-trees are bulit for each frequent item. After that, frequent patterns could be mined using the conditional FP-trees. The details of the FP-Growth alogrithm could be refered to in the work of Han[1].</p>

<h4>3. The implementation of FP-Growth algorithm on MapReduce</h4>

<p style="text-align:justify;">There are two parts of FP-Growth algorithm could be done by using MapReduce.</p>

<p style="text-align:justify;">First part of FP-Growth algorithm is counting the occurences of each item then construct a frequent items list, which could be implemented by using MapReduce. The mapper constructs a pair with setting item as the key and value as 1  (\<item, 1\>) for each item in a transaction. Then reducer adds all values together for the pairs of same key. In the second part, the conditional FP-trees could be constructed by using MapReduce. mapper fisrt sorts the transaction in descending order and eliminates the infrequent items, then constrcuts a pair \<item, transaction\> for each frequent item in the transaction. Reducer will construct a local conaditional FP-tree and mining frequent itemsets for the each item assigned to it. Finally all the results will be aggregated into a global frequent itemsets. One thing that should be noticed is that FP-tree construction could be avoided when using MapReduce.</p>

<h4>Reference:</h4>

1. J. Han, H. Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In: Proc. Conf. on the Management of Data (SIGMOD’00, Dallas, TX). ACM Press, New York, NY, USA 2000.


